# Content REST API

Content REST API provides details about the API endpoints created to retrieve content from three distinct pages on the Drupal site.

For a full description of the module, visit the git Repository
<!-- Git Repo -->

## Table of contents

- Description
- Requirements
- Installation
- Recommended modules
- Testing Tool

## Description

# Create Virtual Host #

1. Open Apache Configuration: Locate the httpd-vhosts.conf file in the C:\xampp\apache\conf\extra directory of XAMPP installation.

2. Edit the Configuration File: Add a new <VirtualHost> block for in my project.
(<VirtualHost *:80>
    DocumentRoot "C:/xampp/htdocs/NEW_TASK"
    ServerName NEW_TASK.test
</VirtualHost>)

3. Edit the Hosts File: Open the hosts file located in C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc with a text editor with administrator privileges. Add the following line:
127.0.0.1 NEW_TASK.test

# Create three Paragraph Types #
1. 	Author(Author Name, Author Biography, Author image)
2. 	Review(Rating, Comments)
3. 	Speaker(Speaker Name, Speaker Biography)

# Create Content Types #
1. Book(Book Title, Description, Author(Entity reference revisions))
2. Event(Event Title, Event Description, Date And Time, Location, Speaker(Entity reference revisions))
3. Product(Product Title, Manufacturer, Review(Entity reference revisions))

# Build Pages with Paragraphs #
Create 3 pages, each using a different content type and each content type use different paragraph.

# Create custom module #
I have created custom REST API using custom module to get the page all data by follow the structure(/modules/custom/contept_api/src/Plugin/rest/resource) and content_api.info.yml file. 

# Expose API endpoints for the created pages to retrieve content in a JSON format #

To achieve this, I navigated to the administration menu and accessed "Configuration > Web Services > REST." In the Rest resource settings, I enabled my custom resource for all three pages, selected the GET method, set the request format to JSON, and opted for basic authentication as the authentication provider. After configuring these settings, I saved the changes.

# To verify the functionality of the API, I utilized Postman #

I selected the GET method in Postman, provided the necessary parameters(_format as key and json as value), and configured basic authentication(Basic Auth) by entering the username and password(admin). Upon clicking "Send," Postman successfully retrieved all the data associated with my resource.

## Requirements

Drupal 8,9,10

## Installation
This module requires the following modules:

Contrib Modules: 
- [Paragraph](composer require 'drupal/paragraphs:^1.17')
- [Rest UI](composer require 'drupal/restui:^1.21')

Core Modules:
-[HTTP Basic Authentication]
-[RESTful Web Services]
-[Serialization]

## Recommended modules

[Admin Toolbar Extra Tools](https://www.drupal.org/project/admin_toolbar):
Provides menu links to administration pages or actions (eg. Flushing caches)
that are not generated by Drupal core.

[Admin Toolbar Links Access Filter](https://www.drupal.org/node/2474539):
Provides a workaround for the common problem that users with
'Use the administration pages and help' permission see menu links they don't
have access permission for.

## Testing Tool

[Postman](https://www.postman.com/downloads/)
Postman is a popular collaboration platform for API development that simplifies the process of designing, testing, and documenting APIs. Here are key aspects and features of the Postman tool:











